---
title: Firefly ITX-3588J
description:
published: true
date: 2025-09-17T08:03:40.320Z
tags:
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-12T08:19:14.440Z
---

# 1. 簡介

The Firefly ITX-3588J is a somewhat unusual device compared to other RK3588 SBCs. This page lists some articles that mention its quirks and how to fix or work around them.

> We nicknamed it "_Frisbee_" because it's better at flying than computing!
> {.is-info}

# 2. Download

You can find download links for images in our [website](https://bredos.org/download.html)!

# 3. SATA Controller

Some, if not all, boards have shipped with broken SATA controller firmware.

- To flash the correct firmware, follow this how-to.

```
sudo dmesg | grep ata
```

> ata1.01: exception Emask 0x100 SAct 0x8228c11 SErr 0x0 action 0x6 frozen
> ata1.01: failed command: WRITE FPDMA QUEUED
> ata1.01: cmd 61/80:00:80:d1:08/00:00:00:00:00/40 tag 0 ncq dma 65536 out
> res 40/00:00:00:00:00/00:00:00:00:00/00 Emask 0x4 (timeout)
> ata1.01: status: { DRDY }
> {.is-warning}

To flash the correct firmware, follow this [how-to](/en/ITX-3588J/sata-firmware-fix).

# 4. Bluetooth

Unlike other SBCs, the Bluetooth adapter is _not_ attached to `/dev/ttyS9`, but to `/dev/ttyS6`. If you have trouble activating Bluetooth, follow this guide.

# 5. HDMI

There are known issues with all HDMI ports (input and output). The upper HDMI output is disabled by the BIOS, and the bottom one is disabled by the OS. This may be fixed in the future, but for now, just avoid using HDMI and instead use VGA or DisplayPort/HDMI over USB-C.

# 5. mini PCIe / NVME

If you didn’t know already, the specifications of these port types allow a USB connection. This is commonly used for handling WiFi/Bluetooth combo cards: while WiFi is connected via PCIe, Bluetooth uses USB.

Firefly wisely decided to connect only USB to these ports. There are breakout cards available on AliExpress that provide a full-sized USB 3.0 or internal USB 3.0 port.

# 4. Bluetooth

Even so the RK3588 implements USB Gadget mode on its USB Type C port, its not enabled on the Firefly ITX-3588j mainboard.