---
title: News 07/May/2025
description: GRUB Password, Governors, DTSC!
published: true
date: 2025-05-07T18:32:43.964Z
tags:
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-05-07T14:37:42.291Z
---

# 07/May/2025 BredOS Blog Post

"Wait, we do this kind of thing?" edition.

# Recent Additions to BredOS

BredOS is under active development, new packages are being added and scripts are being created on the daily.

## Governor Control

Package `bredos-govctl` was released, to manage scheduling and governors for CPU, GPU and NPUs for all available hardware.
It should improve performance on the Panthor graphics stack and better preserve battery life on hardware that runs on a battery.

The full wiki page for govctl can be found [here]/how-to/govctl).

## Proton-run

A utility to use Steam's Proton Experimental to run Windows x86_64 applications under Linux ARM64.

The full wiki page for proton-run can be found [here]/how-to/proton-run).

## BredOS-Chroot

`bredos-chroot` a utility to easily chroot onto another BredOS install is now available, also under the `bredos-tools` package.

The full page to using BredOS-Chroot can also be found [here]/how-to/bredos-chroot)

## GRUB Password Protection

Under the package `bredos-tools` the program `grub-password` has been added, which can be used to set a GRUB password.

The full wiki page for configuring grub passwords can be found [here]/Tools#grub-password-protection).

## Device Tree Compiler helper script

Also under the package `bredos-tools` the program `dtsc` has been added, which can be used to quickly and easily be used to compile custom system Device Trees and Overlays for custom hardware.

The full wiki page for using DTSC can be found [here]/Tools#dtsc-helper-script).

# For existing installs

If you've installed BredOS before all this, which you probably have if you're reading this, you should highly consider installing `bredos-tools` and `bredos-govctl`.

# Fresh installs

The packages will be included by default on new installations.